# An introduction to R for neuroscientists

I plan to give a one-hour, rough and ready, introduction to R for
Neuroscientists over Zoom.  R is very popular programming language
within some discplines (e.g. computational biology).  It is however
little used within Neuroscience compared to other tools such as
Matlab or Python.  In some ways, it should not matter what you use,
and my advice is to use what you are comfortable with and what gets
the job done most efficiently.

With that in mind, I will introduce R through some examples geared
towards Neuroscientists.  I provide a rough one hour outline below, open
to change as I prepare the materials.

I'm looking for up to ten volunteers to try out the material, and then
we can run it again if it is helpful (or quietly forget it if not...)

# Outline

## Preliminaries.

Install R and Rstudio.  Brief introduction to why they are useful.
The session will work best if you can install these two programs
before you start.  Introduction to CRAN (Comprehensive R Archive
Network).




## Case study one: analysis of calcium imaging data.

You have some calcium imaging data reporting the simultaneous activity
levels of a group of neurons, stored in a spreadsheet.  We will load
the data in and interrogate the data to discover properties about the
neurons.

## Case study two: changes in firing rate in response to antagonists.

You have some recordings of neural activity in response to control and
drug conditions.  Did your drug cause a significant change in firing
rate?  Rather than rushing to perform a t-test, we will examine a
modern computational approach, that is much more intuitive, to
assessing the significance of firing rates.

## Case study three: modelling action potentials.

(Only if there is plenty of time, probably not).  We will examine how
a modern simplification (the Izhikevich model) to the traditional
Hodgkin-Huxley system.

## Next steps

Where to go next to learn more about R.


	


